COCONUT CHICKEN CURRY

2 pounds boneless skinless chicken breasts, cut into 1/2-inch chunks
1 teaspoon salt and pepper, or to taste 
1 1/2 tablespoons vegetable oil (can consider other oil like olive or avocada)
2 tablespoons curry powder 
1/2 onion, thinly sliced 
2 cloves garlic, crushed 
1 (14 ounce) can coconut milk 
1 (14.5 ounce) can stewed, diced tomatoes 
1 (8 ounce) can tomato sauce 
3 tablespoons sugar

Season chicken pieces with salt and pepper.

Heat oil and curry powder in a large skillet over medium-high heat for two minutes. Stir in onions and garlic, and cook 1 minute more. Add chicken, tossing lightly to coat with curry oil. Reduce heat to medium, and cook for 7 to 10 minutes, or until chicken is no longer pink in center and juices run clear.

Pour coconut milk, tomatoes, tomato sauce, and sugar into the pan, and stir to combine. Cover and simmer, stirring occasionally, approximately 30 to 40 minutes.

HELPFUL COMMENTS:

This recipe is awesome! The only recommendation I would make (my mother was raised in India, so she taught me): the difference between a good curry & a great curry is what my aunt called the broth. The broth is what is made with the spices & the onion. The curry powder (paste is even better) should be cooked in the oil until it is ready - usually about 5 minutes. Then add the onion & spice - cook until the onion is translucent. This will take about 10 minutes, but it makes all the difference in the world. Add more oil as the onion is cooking, if necessary. Then add the tomato (fresh is even better - strained) and cook it for a little while. NOW you're ready to make the curry. This recipe was a HUGE hit with my family!

Usually I reduce the salt in recipes, but this dish needs most of the salt called for, and the pepper too. As written, you'll end up with a fairly runny sauce after simmering for 30-40 minutes. However, I simmer this much longer, uncovered and stirring frequently until it is thick and the tomatoes break down and blend into the sauce. (At least an hour depending on how much you let it bubble.) You could instead use less tomatoes, but I really like the recipe the way it's written, just simmered MUCH longer. Goes great with a Thai cucumber salad, zucchini, carrots, and/or cauliflower. I disagree with the other reviewer - unsweetened coconut milk is the way to go. EVERYONE loves this recipe - even those who've never tried curry.

